docs(zklogin): restructure IA and fix content issues (#27357)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/sui-stack/zklogin-integration/integration-guide.mdx

1. After receiving the JSON Web Token (JWT), obtain a zero-knowledge proof.
1. Obtain a unique user salt. Use the OAuth subject identifier and salt to compute the zkLogin Sui address.
1. Sign transactions with the ephemeral private key.
1. Submit the transaction with the ephemeral signature and the zero-knowledge proof.

:::caution Production hardening

Before going to production, harden your integration:

- **Run a production salt service** with proper availability and backups. Losing salts means users permanently lose access to their addresses.
- **Serve all endpoints over HTTPS** and configure CORS correctly so only your origins can reach your salt and proving backends.
- **Bind the OAuth `nonce`** to both the JWT and the ephemeral public key, and validate it on return to prevent replay and token-substitution attacks.
- **Never log JWTs, ZK proofs, or salts.** These are sensitive credentials.
- **Keep separate Testnet and Mainnet configuration** (OAuth clients, salt service, prover) so test credentials never reach production.

See [Security Best Practices](/develop/security/best-practices).

> :::

Author: ```suggestion
To implement zkLogin, first read [What is zkLogin?](/sui-stack/zklogin-integration) for the underlying concepts, then [configure at least one OpenID provider](/sui-stack/zklogin-integration/developer-account).

Your application generates an ephemeral key pair, then prompts the user to complete an OAuth login flow with a nonce derived from the ephemeral public key. When the provider returns the JSON Web Token (JWT), your application obtains a zero-knowledge proof and a unique user salt, then computes the zkLogin Sui address from the OAuth subject identifier and that salt. Your application signs transactions with the ephemeral private key and submits each transaction with both the ephemeral signature and the zero-knowledge proof.

:::caution Production hardening

Harden your integration before you move to production. Run a production salt service with proper availability and backups, because a user who loses a salt permanently loses access to that address. Serve all endpoints over HTTPS and configure Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) so that only your origins reach your salt and proving backends. Bind the OAuth `nonce` to both the JWT and the ephemeral public key, and validate it on return to prevent replay and token-substitution attacks. Never log JWTs, zero-knowledge proofs, or salts, because these values are sensitive credentials. Keep separate Testnet and Mainnet configuration for your OAuth clients, salt service, and prover so that test credentials never reach production.

See [Security Best Practices](/develop/security/best-practices).

:::
```

```typescript
import { decodeJwt } from '@mysten/sui/zklogin';

const decodedJwt = decodeJwt(encodedJWT);
// decodedJwt.sub — the user's unique identifier
// decodedJwt.iss — the OAuth provider
// decodedJwt.aud — your application's client ID
```

You can validate the structure of the encoded JWT by pasting it in [jwt.io](https://jwt.io).

## Step 4: Manage user salt

The user salt is a 16-byte value (or integer smaller than `2n**128n`) that, combined with the OAuth subject identifier, determines the user's Sui address. **If a user loses their salt, they permanently lose access to that address.**

Choose a salt management strategy:

| Strategy | Description | Trade-offs |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **User-provided** | Ask the user to enter and remember the salt. | Basic but poor UX; users forget salts. |
| **Browser/device storage** | Store in `localStorage` or mobile secure storage. | Easy but lost on device/browser change. Email the salt to the user as a backup. |
| **Database mapping** | Map user identifier (`sub`) to a salt in your backend database. | Reliable; requires a backend service. Salt is unique per user. |

> | **Derived from master seed** | Use `HKDF(ikm = seed, salt = iss \|\| aud, info = sub)` to derive salts deterministically from a master seed. | No per-user storage needed, but the master seed cannot be rotated and the client ID (`aud`) cannot change without deriving a different address. |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Strategy** | **Description** | **Trade-offs** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| User-provided | Ask the user to enter and remember the salt. | Basic but poor UX; users forget salts. |
| Browser/device storage | Store in `localStorage` or mobile secure storage. | Easy but lost on device/browser change. Email the salt to the user as a backup. |
| Database mapping | Map user identifier (`sub`) to a salt in your backend database. | Reliable; requires a backend service. Salt is unique per user. |
| Derived from master seed | Use `HKDF(ikm = seed, salt = iss \|\| aud, info = sub)` to derive salts deterministically from a master seed. | No per-user storage needed, but the master seed cannot be rotated and the client ID (`aud`) cannot change without deriving a different address. |
```

```sh
curl -X POST https://salt.api.mystenlabs.com/get_salt \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"token": "$JWT_TOKEN"}'

# Response: {"salt":"129390038577185583942388216820280642146"}
```

The salt's purpose is to disconnect the OAuth identifier (`sub`) from the onchain Sui address. Leaking the salt enables linking Web2 and Web3 identities but does not compromise fund control.

## Step 5: Derive the user's Sui address

With the JWT and salt, derive the zkLogin address:

```typescript
import { jwtToAddress } from '@mysten/sui/zklogin';

// The third argument (legacyAddress) is required.
// Pass false for new integrations; pass true only for addresses created before the derivation fix.
const zkLoginUserAddress = jwtToAddress(jwt, userSalt, false);
```

The same `sub` + `iss` + `aud` + `user_salt` always produces the same address. See [Address definition](/sui-stack/zklogin-integration/zklogin#address-definition) for the full derivation formula.

## Step 6: Get the zero-knowledge proof

> The ZK proof attests that the ephemeral key pair is valid and bound to the user's OAuth identity, without revealing the JWT onchain.

Author: ```suggestion
The zero-knowledge proof attests that the ephemeral key pair is valid and bound to the user's OAuth identity, without revealing the JWT onchain.
```

First, generate the extended ephemeral public key:

```typescript
import { getExtendedEphemeralPublicKey } from '@mysten/sui/zklogin';

const extendedEphemeralPublicKey = getExtendedEphemeralPublicKey(
  ephemeralKeyPair.getPublicKey(),
);
```

> You need a new ZK proof whenever the ephemeral key pair expires or is lost. The proof can be reused for multiple transactions within the same session.

Author: ```suggestion
You need a new zero-knowledge proof whenever the ephemeral key pair expires or is lost. The proof can be reused for multiple transactions within the same session.
```

       ports:
         - '${PROVER_PORT}:8080'
       environment:
         - PROVER_URI=http://backend:8080/input
         - NODE_ENV=production
         - DEBUG=zkLogin:info,jwks
         # Default timeout is 15 seconds. Uncomment to change:
         # - PROVER_TIMEOUT=30
   ```

   ```sh
   ZKEY=<path_to_zkLogin.zkey> PROVER_PORT=<port> docker compose up
   ```

1. The service exposes two endpoints:
   - `/ping`: health check (returns `pong`)
   - `/v1`: proof generation (same request/response format as the Mysten Labs service)

:::info Prover resource requirements

The backend service (`mysten/zklogin:prover-stable`) is compute-heavy. Use at least **16 cores and 16 GB RAM**. Weaker instances can cause timeout errors ("Call to rapidsnark service took longer than 15s"). Adjust with `PROVER_TIMEOUT=30` for a 30-second timeout.

Set `DEBUG=zkLogin:info,jwks` in production. Using `DEBUG=*` turns on all logs, some of which contain PII.

If you need better performance, compile the prover from the [rapidsnark fork](https://github.com/MystenLabs/rapidsnark#compile-prover-in-server-mode) and launch it in server mode.

:::

## Step 7: Assemble the zkLogin signature and submit

> Sign the transaction with the ephemeral private key, then combine it with the ZK proof to create a zkLogin signature.

Author: ```suggestion
Sign the transaction with the ephemeral private key, then combine it with the zero-knowledge proof to create a zkLogin signature.
```

Cache the ephemeral key pair and ZK proof for the duration of the session. However, treat them as secrets:

- **Use session storage, not local storage** on browsers. Session storage clears automatically when the browser session ends.
- **Never persist them** in an insecure location on any platform.
- If both the ephemeral private key and ZK proof are compromised, an attacker can sign transactions on the user's behalf.

## Efficiency considerations

zkLogin proofs take longer to generate than traditional signatures. The Mysten Labs prover typically returns a proof in about three seconds on a machine with 16 vCPUs and 64 GB RAM.

The right capacity metric is **active user sessions**, not individual signatures, because you cache and reuse each proof across a session. For example, one million daily active sessions with evenly distributed traffic requires roughly 1–2 requests per second (RPS) from the prover.

The Mysten Labs prover auto-scales for traffic surges. If you expect a spike in prover requests, reach out on [Discord](https://discord.gg/sui).

## Troubleshooting

> | Symptom | Cause | Fix |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Symptom** | **Cause** | **Fix** |
```
